out of curiosity why did you choose to
click on this video and watch it in
general how do you feel about public
speaking do you get nervous what's the
best speech you've ever delivered and
what was the reaction like from the
audience what I'm doing right now may
not seem like it but it is one of the
key ingredients to having a successful
one-on-one conversation and in this
video I'm going to talk about why it's
so important to ask questions when
communicating to somebody on a
one-to-one basis hey everyone my name is
Wade Patterson and my YouTube channel is
about becoming a better communicator and
we're talking about communication of All
Sorts in this video I'm talking about
one-to-one communication but in most of
my videos I talk about public speaking
speaking to a bigger audience but I've
also created other pieces of video
content as well such as speaking of
video content how to create video
content and get over that initial fear
so what I'm trying to say is that my
YouTube channel covers a lot of areas
with the ultimate goal of making you a
more impactful communicator and if that
is something you care about which I
think you should care about it because
communication is so incredibly important
so if it is please subscribe to my
channel my goal is to create as many
great videos as possible to keep you
informed give you fresh ideas and keep
you at the top of your communication
game and by subscribing to my channel
you will hopefully never miss one of
those videos in 2017 there was a Harvard
research study that I came across and it
was fascinating because it talked about
the importance of asking questions in
conversations and I may be butchering
the specifics of this study but if as
far as call it there were a few
different test groups and in the first
test group participants were engaging in
a conversation they were that control
group and the group b who was
communicating with them Group B was
asked in the first group to ask as many
questions as possible to their
conversation Partners in the second
group group b the people talking to the
others who are group a the test group
were asked to kind of bounce it back and
forth so to ask some questions but then
also talk about themselves on somewhat
of a 50 50 basis and then in the third
group group b was asked to not really
ask many questions just talk mostly
about themselves keep that conversation
flowing but from their own perspective
and this research happened and it was
done in many forms but what ultimately
was found was that the first group the
people who were are asking questions to
their conversation Partners were
significantly rated as more enjoyable
conversations than the other groups that
participated and this actually shouldn't
be that surprising because if we think
about it in life we've all got a million
things going on in our head our worlds
are so busy and we've all got our own
dreams our own goals our own challenges
our own problems and we're quick to tell
others about those things that we're
experiencing but what's a bit more rare
is when somebody takes a genuine
interest in in our world in our
experiences and really asks good
questions that gives us the opportunity
to to share those things that we care
about and the fact that they are
listening intently
it is enjoyable it's nice it's a good
feeling as though this person really
cares and that they are willing to hear
about all of the things I'm experiencing
now this study went a step further and
actually had a speed dating element to
it and for all of you single viewers out
there it found that those people on
speed dates who asked more questions
were more likely to secure a second date
than the other test groups who didn't so
hey on this channel I talk about
improving your communication skills for
business and personal purposes this
really is a personal purpose some of you
may get a date thanks to this video or a
better chance at a partner so you're
welcome in advance so how do we ensure
that we're asking a lot of questions in
conversations one-on-one conversations
that we're having the first tip is to
bite that habit or fight that habit that
we always want to think about what we're
going to say next this is something
that's incredibly common when you're in
a conversation and a topic comes up
often we have a story that relates and
we have that that urge to want to tell
our story or our perspective and that
can be fine and that might be completely
relevant but if we're able to park that
to the side and really listen listen
intently that is the biggest key to this
video is the ability to listen listen
intently to what our conversation
partner is saying and listen with the
point of asking more questions and
learning more about the situation and
once you get in the habit of doing this
it becomes incredibly natural and normal
to start to think of what types of
questions to ask next for example if I'm
talking to somebody named Mary about a
summer vacation that she went on and
Mary tells me yeah I went there with
um a bunch of my cousins who I don't see
very often and we all stayed at a cabin
and yeah it was just a lot of fun it was
a great way to spend an August weekend
in that little piece of information I've
gotten from Mary there's a lot of things
I could be thinking about the first is
okay she's mentioned that she doesn't
see these cousins very often where are
the cousins based how many cousins were
there how old are the cousins why don't
you see them that often is there a
family dynamic or is it just distance
you can start to really learn more about
the situations and every answer Mary
gives I promise you is going to open up
more potential questions you talk about
where they were vacationing we could
talk about what types of activities they
did while on vacation did she have to
take off work time for that speaking of
work time does her job is it pretty
flexible does it allow her to take as
many vacation days as she wants in the
year is she limited to four weeks to
there are endless threads where if we're
paying attention we can really start to
pick out these things and ask more
questions and what will happen naturally
is Mary is going to enjoy the
conversation because and this is the key
we're actually interested so this video
is going to be useless if you go into
conversations and you just are asking
questions for the point of asking
questions no of course you have to take
an actual interest in what the person's
saying but you'll really start to tap
into their passions and what they care
about because the more questions you ask
the more little hints and clues they're
going to voluntarily give you and that's
what it's all about in terms of getting
to know somebody on a deeper level it's
incredibly important again to to have a
great successful conversation
to ask a lot of questions and if you're
being asked questions back about
yourself and your perspective of course
by all means talk about whatever it is
that you're being asked about but then
always keep an eye on the opportunity so
if you feel like the other person's only
asking you questions and you're not
getting to know them try to throw it
back every now and then if I'm in a
conversation talking about how I love
the sport of volleyball and they're
asking me questions like oh do you play
on a team do you play in the summer or
the spring or the fall what seasons do
you play volleyball in what position do
you play where in your city do you play
at they're asking me all these questions
I can answer them but then at some point
throw it back to the other person how
about you do you play volleyball what
sports do you play how long have you
played that in your life and you start
to ask them those questions as well so
it should be this this feeling of
genuine interest for the person that
you're talking to a couple years ago I
created a speech or a presentation and
it was all about impactful communication
surprise surprise and I had different
challenges in that each and I'm going to
share one of those challenges with you I
called it the Voltaire challenge why did
I call it that because Voltaire has this
famous quote judge a man by his
questions rather than by his answers and
the Voltaire challenge was for you the
audience member to try and ask more
questions in every conversation you're
in than your conversation partner and of
course you don't need to count every
single question but you should come out
of those conversations feeling like you
really asked a lot of great questions
and got to learn a lot about the person
you were chatting with and this
challenge I think is is such an
important one and I know this video has
been a little different than most of the
videos I put out on my channel but I
don't want to minimize the importance of
the topic I'm talking about because I
really think this idea of being
intentional in one-on-one conversations
which is something most people don't
think they need to practice one-on-one
conversations we think about practicing
public speaking but we chat to so many
people so often why would we have to
change that but I really think that if
you analyze the conversations you're
having on a daily basis and ask yourself
whether you're asking others as many
questions as you could be it could be a
game changer for you just in terms of
how people enjoy interacting with you
how they feel coming out of those
conversations so take it for what it's
worth but I really think one of the keys
to being a great conversationalist is
asking a lot of questions I know this
video was a bit different than some of
my others but for those of you who stuck
along this long and watched it through
its entirety thank you so much for doing
so if you haven't already please
subscribe to my Channel or if you know
somebody else who's super selfish in
conversations and never asks you a
question send them this video tell them
then they should learn
how to become a better conversationalist
maybe you have to do so in a subtle way
but feel free to share my content with
anyone you think could benefit from
these videos as always thank you so much
for taking the time to watch I really
appreciate it have an amazing day people
are more scared of public speaking than
they are of dying
is it just me or is that wrong hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson and I
am passionate about impactful
communication my YouTube channel has
helped hundreds of thousands of people
improve their public speaking skills and
I am thrilled to release my first ever
course which has taken my decade of
learning about how to become a better
public speaker and boiled it down to
this theme of mastering the five
Essentials of public speaking I know for
a fact that if you can dial in these
five elements and perfect them you are
going to be a phenomenal public speaker
Head and Shoulders Above the Rest just
by being aware of these things by taking
the time to digest the information in
this course practice it and then put it
to action through your speeches you are
going to become a better public speaker
as a bonus in this course I sit down
with the world's greatest freestyle
rapper Harry Mack and one of the
greatest keynote speakers in the world
Sean kanungu and I get their tips
firsthand of what makes them incredible
at what they do if you agree that public
speaking definitely should not be
scarier than dying sign up for my course
you won't regret it